The LaTeX Project Public License
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

LPPL Version 1.3c  2008-05-04

Copyright 1999 2002-2008 LaTeX3 Project
    Everyone is allowed to distribute verbatim copies of this
    license document, but modification of it is not allowed.


PREAMBLE
========

The LaTeX Project Public License (LPPL) is the primary license under
which the LaTeX kernel and the base LaTeX packages are distributed.

You may use this license for any work of which you hold the copyright
and which you wish to distribute.  This license may be particularly
suitable if your work is TeX-related (such as a LaTeX package), but 
it is written in such a way that you can use it even if your work is 
unrelated to TeX.

The section `WHETHER AND HOW TO DISTRIBUTE WORKS UNDER THIS LICENSE',
below, gives instructions, examples, and recommendations for authors
who are considering distributing their works under this license.

This license gives conditions under which a work may be distributed
and modified, as well as conditions under which modified versions of
that work may be distributed.

We, the LaTeX3 Project, believe that the conditions below give you
the freedom to make and distribute modified versions of your work
that conform with whatever technical specifications you wish while
maintaining the availability, integrity, and reliability of
that work.  If you do not see how to achieve your goal while
meeting these conditions, then read the document `cfgguide.tex'
and `modguide.tex' in the base LaTeX distribution for suggestions.


DEFINITIONS
===========

In this license document the following terms are used:

   `Work'
    Any work being distributed under this License.
    
   `Derived Work'
    Any work that under any applicable law is derived from the Work.

   `Modification' 
    Any procedure that produces a Derived Work under any applicable
    law -- for example, the production of a file containing an
    original file associated with the Work or a significant portion of
    such a file, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
    translated into another language.

   `Modify'
    To apply any procedure that produces a Derived Work under any
    applicable law.
    
   `Distribution'
    Making copies of the Work available from one person to another, in
    whole or in part.  Distribution includes (but is not limited to)
    making any electronic components of the Work accessible by
    file transfer protocols such as FTP or HTTP or by shared file
    systems such as Sun's Network File System (NFS).

   `Compiled Work'
    A version of the Work that has been processed into a form where it
    is directly usable on a computer system.  This processing may
    include using installation facilities provided by the Work,
    transformations of the Work, copying of components of the Work, or
    other activities.  Note that modification of any installation
    facilities provided by the Work constitutes modification of the Work.

   `Current Maintainer'
    A person or persons nominated as such within the Work.  If there is
    no such explicit nomination then it is the `Copyright Holder' under
    any applicable law.

   `Base Interpreter' 
    A program or process that is normally needed for running or
    interpreting a part or the whole of the Work.    

    A Base Interpreter may depend on external components but these
    are not considered part of the Base Interpreter provided that each
    external component clearly identifies itself whenever it is used
    interactively.  Unless explicitly specified when applying the
    license to the Work, the only applicable Base Interpreter is a
    `LaTeX-Format' or in the case of files belonging to the 
    `LaTeX-format' a program implementing the `TeX language'.



CONDITIONS ON DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
===========================================

1.  Activities other than distribution and/or modification of the Work
are not covered by this license; they are outside its scope.  In
particular, the act of running the Work is not restricted and no
requirements are made concerning any offers of support for the Work.

2.  You may distribute a complete, unmodified copy of the Work as you
received it.  Distribution of only part of the Work is considered
modification of the Work, and no right to distribute such a Derived
Work may be assumed under the terms of this clause.

3.  You may distribute a Compiled Work that has been generated from a
complete, unmodified copy of the Work as distributed under Clause 2
above, as long as that Compiled Work is distributed in such a way that
the recipients may install the Compiled Work on their system exactly
as it would have been installed if they generated a Compiled Work
directly from the Work.

4.  If you are the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may, without
restriction, modify the Work, thus creating a Derived Work.  You may
also distribute the Derived Work without restriction, including
Compiled Works generated from the Derived Work.  Derived Works
distributed in this manner by the Current Maintainer are considered to
be updated versions of the Work.

5.  If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may modify
your copy of the Work, thus creating a Derived Work based on the Work,
and compile this Derived Work, thus creating a Compiled Work based on
the Derived Work.

6.  If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may
distribute a Derived Work provided the following conditions are met
for every component of the Work unless that component clearly states
in the copyright notice that it is exempt from that condition.  Only
the Current Maintainer is allowed to add such statements of exemption 
to a component of the Work. 

  a. If a component of this Derived Work can be a direct replacement
     for a component of the Work when that component is used with the
     Base Interpreter, then, wherever this component of the Work
     identifies itself to the user when used interactively with that
     Base Interpreter, the replacement component of this Derived Work
     clearly and unambiguously identifies itself as a modified version
     of this component to the user when used interactively with that
     Base Interpreter.
     
  b. Every component of the Derived Work contains prominent notices
     detailing the nature of the changes to that component, or a
     prominent reference to another file that is distributed as part
     of the Derived Work and that contains a complete and accurate log
     of the changes.
  
  c. No information in the Derived Work implies that any persons,
     including (but not limited to) the authors of the original version
     of the Work, provide any support, including (but not limited to)
     the reporting and handling of errors, to recipients of the
     Derived Work unless those persons have stated explicitly that
     they do provide such support for the Derived Work.

  d. You distribute at least one of the following with the Derived Work:

       1. A complete, unmodified copy of the Work; 
          if your distribution of a modified component is made by
          offering access to copy the modified component from a
          designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy
          the Work from the same or some similar place meets this
          condition, even though third parties are not compelled to
          copy the Work along with the modified component;

       2. Information that is sufficient to obtain a complete,
          unmodified copy of the Work.

7.  If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may
distribute a Compiled Work generated from a Derived Work, as long as
the Derived Work is distributed to all recipients of the Compiled
Work, and as long as the conditions of Clause 6, above, are met with
regard to the Derived Work.

8.  The conditions above are not intended to prohibit, and hence do not
apply to, the modification, by any method, of any component so that it
becomes identical to an updated version of that component of the Work as
it is distributed by the Current Maintainer under Clause 4, above.

9.  Distribution of the Work or any Derived Work in an alternative
format, where the Work or that Derived Work (in whole or in part) is
then produced by applying some process to that format, does not relax or
nullify any sections of this license as they pertain to the results of
applying that process.
     
10. a. A Derived Work may be distributed under a different license
       provided that license itself honors the conditions listed in
       Clause 6 above, in regard to the Work, though it does not have
       to honor the rest of the conditions in this license.
      
    b. If a Derived Work is distributed under a different license, that
       Derived Work must provide sufficient documentation as part of
       itself to allow each recipient of that Derived Work to honor the 
       restrictions in Clause 6 above, concerning changes from the Work.

11. This license places no restrictions on works that are unrelated to
the Work, nor does this license place any restrictions on aggregating
such works with the Work by any means.

12.  Nothing in this license is intended to, or may be used to, prevent
complete compliance by all parties with all applicable laws.


NO WARRANTY
===========

There is no warranty for the Work.  Except when otherwise stated in
writing, the Copyright Holder provides the Work `as is', without
warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not
limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose.  The entire risk as to the quality and performance
of the Work is with you.  Should the Work prove defective, you assume
the cost of all necessary servicing, repair, or correction.

In no event unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing
will The Copyright Holder, or any author named in the components of the
Work, or any other party who may distribute and/or modify the Work as
permitted above, be liable to you for damages, including any general,
special, incidental or consequential damages arising out of any use of
the Work or out of inability to use the Work (including, but not limited
to, loss of data, data being rendered inaccurate, or losses sustained by
anyone as a result of any failure of the Work to operate with any other
programs), even if the Copyright Holder or said author or said other
party has been advised of the possibility of such damages.


MAINTENANCE OF THE WORK
=======================

The Work has the status `author-maintained' if the Copyright Holder
explicitly and prominently states near the primary copyright notice in
the Work that the Work can only be maintained by the Copyright Holder
or simply that it is `author-maintained'.

The Work has the status `maintained' if there is a Current Maintainer
who has indicated in the Work that they are willing to receive error
reports for the Work (for example, by supplying a valid e-mail
address). It is not required for the Current Maintainer to acknowledge
or act upon these error reports.

The Work changes from status `maintained' to `unmaintained' if there
is no Current Maintainer, or the person stated to be Current
Maintainer of the work cannot be reached through the indicated means
of communication for a period of six months, and there are no other
significant signs of active maintenance.

You can become the Current Maintainer of the Work by agreement with
any existing Current Maintainer to take over this role.

If the Work is unmaintained, you can become the Current Maintainer of
the Work through the following steps:

 1.  Make a reasonable attempt to trace the Current Maintainer (and
     the Copyright Holder, if the two differ) through the means of
     an Internet or similar search.

 2.  If this search is successful, then enquire whether the Work
     is still maintained.

  a. If it is being maintained, then ask the Current Maintainer
     to update their communication data within one month.
     
  b. If the search is unsuccessful or no action to resume active
     maintenance is taken by the Current Maintainer, then announce
     within the pertinent community your intention to take over
     maintenance.  (If the Work is a LaTeX work, this could be
     done, for example, by posting to comp.text.tex.)

 3a. If the Current Maintainer is reachable and agrees to pass
     maintenance of the Work to you, then this takes effect
     immediately upon announcement.
     
  b. If the Current Maintainer is not reachable and the Copyright
     Holder agrees that maintenance of the Work be passed to you,
     then this takes effect immediately upon announcement.  
    
 4.  If you make an `intention announcement' as described in 2b. above
     and after three months your intention is challenged neither by
     the Current Maintainer nor by the Copyright Holder nor by other
     people, then you may arrange for the Work to be changed so as
     to name you as the (new) Current Maintainer.
     
 5.  If the previously unreachable Current Maintainer becomes
     reachable once more within three months of a change completed
     under the terms of 3b) or 4), then that Current Maintainer must
     become or remain the Current Maintainer upon request provided
     they then update their communication data within one month.

A change in the Current Maintainer does not, of itself, alter the fact
that the Work is distributed under the LPPL license.

If you become the Current Maintainer of the Work, you should
immediately provide, within the Work, a prominent and unambiguous
statement of your status as Current Maintainer.  You should also
announce your new status to the same pertinent community as
in 2b) above.


WHETHER AND HOW TO DISTRIBUTE WORKS UNDER THIS LICENSE
======================================================

This section contains important instructions, examples, and
recommendations for authors who are considering distributing their
works under this license.  These authors are addressed as `you' in
this section.

Choosing This License or Another License
----------------------------------------

If for any part of your work you want or need to use *distribution*
conditions that differ significantly from those in this license, then
do not refer to this license anywhere in your work but, instead,
distribute your work under a different license.  You may use the text
of this license as a model for your own license, but your license
should not refer to the LPPL or otherwise give the impression that
your work is distributed under the LPPL.

The document `modguide.tex' in the base LaTeX distribution explains
the motivation behind the conditions of this license.  It explains,
for example, why distributing LaTeX under the GNU General Public
License (GPL) was considered inappropriate.  Even if your work is
unrelated to LaTeX, the discussion in `modguide.tex' may still be
relevant, and authors intending to distribute their works under any
license are encouraged to read it.

A Recommendation on Modification Without Distribution
-----------------------------------------------------

It is wise never to modify a component of the Work, even for your own
personal use, without also meeting the above conditions for
distributing the modified component.  While you might intend that such
modifications will never be distributed, often this will happen by
accident -- you may forget that you have modified that component; or
it may not occur to you when allowing others to access the modified
version that you are thus distributing it and violating the conditions
of this license in ways that could have legal implications and, worse,
cause problems for the community.  It is therefore usually in your
best interest to keep your copy of the Work identical with the public
one.  Many works provide ways to control the behavior of that work
without altering any of its licensed components.

How to Use This License
-----------------------

To use this license, place in each of the components of your work both
an explicit copyright notice including your name and the year the work
was authored and/or last substantially modified.  Include also a
statement that the distribution and/or modification of that
component is constrained by the conditions in this license.

Here is an example of such a notice and statement:

  %% pig.dtx
  %% Copyright 2005 M. Y. Name
  %
  % This work may be distributed and/or modified under the
  % conditions of the LaTeX Project Public License, either version 1.3
  % of this license or (at your option) any later version.
  % The latest version of this license is in
  %   http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
  % and version 1.3 or later is part of all distributions of LaTeX
  % version 2005/12/01 or later.
  %
  % This work has the LPPL maintenance status `maintained'.
  % 
  % The Current Maintainer of this work is M. Y. Name.
  %
  % This work consists of the files pig.dtx and pig.ins
  % and the derived file pig.sty.

Given such a notice and statement in a file, the conditions
given in this license document would apply, with the `Work' referring
to the three files `pig.dtx', `pig.ins', and `pig.sty' (the last being
generated from `pig.dtx' using `pig.ins'), the `Base Interpreter'
referring to any `LaTeX-Format', and both `Copyright Holder' and
`Current Maintainer' referring to the person `M. Y. Name'.

If you do not want the Maintenance section of LPPL to apply to your
Work, change `maintained' above into `author-maintained'.  
However, we recommend that you use `maintained', as the Maintenance
section was added in order to ensure that your Work remains useful to
the community even when you can no longer maintain and support it
yourself.

Derived Works That Are Not Replacements
---------------------------------------

Several clauses of the LPPL specify means to provide reliability and
stability for the user community. They therefore concern themselves
with the case that a Derived Work is intended to be used as a
(compatible or incompatible) replacement of the original Work. If
this is not the case (e.g., if a few lines of code are reused for a
completely different task), then clauses 6b and 6d shall not apply.


Important Recommendations
-------------------------

 Defining What Constitutes the Work

   The LPPL requires that distributions of the Work contain all the
   files of the Work.  It is therefore important that you provide a
   way for the licensee to determine which files constitute the Work.
   This could, for example, be achieved by explicitly listing all the
   files of the Work near the copyright notice of each file or by
   using a line such as:

    % This work consists of all files listed in manifest.txt.
   
   in that place.  In the absence of an unequivocal list it might be
   impossible for the licensee to determine what is considered by you
   to comprise the Work and, in such a case, the licensee would be
   entitled to make reasonable conjectures as to which files comprise
   the Work.


APPLE PUBLIC SOURCE LICENSE
Version 2.0 - August 6, 2003

Please read this License carefully before downloading this software.
By downloading or using this software, you are agreeing to be bound by
the terms of this License. If you do not or cannot agree to the terms
of this License, please do not download or use the software.

1. General; Definitions. This License applies to any program or other
work which Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple") makes publicly available and
which contains a notice placed by Apple identifying such program or
work as "Original Code" and stating that it is subject to the terms of
this Apple Public Source License version 2.0 ("License"). As used in
this License:

1.1 "Applicable Patent Rights" mean: (a) in the case where Apple is
the grantor of rights, (i) claims of patents that are now or hereafter
acquired, owned by or assigned to Apple and (ii) that cover subject
matter contained in the Original Code, but only to the extent
necessary to use, reproduce and/or distribute the Original Code
without infringement; and (b) in the case where You are the grantor of
rights, (i) claims of patents that are now or hereafter acquired,
owned by or assigned to You and (ii) that cover subject matter in Your
Modifications, taken alone or in combination with Original Code.

1.2 "Contributor" means any person or entity that creates or
contributes to the creation of Modifications.

1.3 "Covered Code" means the Original Code, Modifications, the
combination of Original Code and any Modifications, and/or any
respective portions thereof.

1.4 "Externally Deploy" means: (a) to sublicense, distribute or
otherwise make Covered Code available, directly or indirectly, to
anyone other than You; and/or (b) to use Covered Code, alone or as
part of a Larger Work, in any way to provide a service, including but
not limited to delivery of content, through electronic communication
with a client other than You.

1.5 "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.6 "Modifications" mean any addition to, deletion from, and/or change
to, the substance and/or structure of the Original Code, any previous
Modifications, the combination of Original Code and any previous
Modifications, and/or any respective portions thereof. When code is
released as a series of files, a Modification is: (a) any addition to
or deletion from the contents of a file containing Covered Code;
and/or (b) any new file or other representation of computer program
statements that contains any part of Covered Code.

1.7 "Original Code" means (a) the Source Code of a program or other
work as originally made available by Apple under this License,
including the Source Code of any updates or upgrades to such programs
or works made available by Apple under this License, and that has been
expressly identified by Apple as such in the header file(s) of such
work; and (b) the object code compiled from such Source Code and
originally made available by Apple under this License.

1.8 "Source Code" means the human readable form of a program or other
work that is suitable for making modifications to it, including all
modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files,
scripts used to control compilation and installation of an executable
(object code).

1.9 "You" or "Your" means an individual or a legal entity exercising
rights under this License. For legal entities, "You" or "Your"
includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under
common control with, You, where "control" means (a) the power, direct
or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity,
whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent
(50%) or more of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of
such entity.

2. Permitted Uses; Conditions & Restrictions. Subject to the terms
and conditions of this License, Apple hereby grants You, effective on
the date You accept this License and download the Original Code, a
world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, to the extent of
Apple's Applicable Patent Rights and copyrights covering the Original
Code, to do the following:

2.1 Unmodified Code. You may use, reproduce, display, perform,
internally distribute within Your organization, and Externally Deploy
verbatim, unmodified copies of the Original Code, for commercial or
non-commercial purposes, provided that in each instance:

(a) You must retain and reproduce in all copies of Original Code the
copyright and other proprietary notices and disclaimers of Apple as
they appear in the Original Code, and keep intact all notices in the
Original Code that refer to this License; and

(b) You must include a copy of this License with every copy of Source
Code of Covered Code and documentation You distribute or Externally
Deploy, and You may not offer or impose any terms on such Source Code
that alter or restrict this License or the recipients' rights
hereunder, except as permitted under Section 6.

2.2 Modified Code. You may modify Covered Code and use, reproduce,
display, perform, internally distribute within Your organization, and
Externally Deploy Your Modifications and Covered Code, for commercial
or non-commercial purposes, provided that in each instance You also
meet all of these conditions:

(a) You must satisfy all the conditions of Section 2.1 with respect to
the Source Code of the Covered Code;

(b) You must duplicate, to the extent it does not already exist, the
notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code of all Your
Modifications, and cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that You changed the files and the date of any change; and

(c) If You Externally Deploy Your Modifications, You must make
Source Code of all Your Externally Deployed Modifications either
available to those to whom You have Externally Deployed Your
Modifications, or publicly available. Source Code of Your Externally
Deployed Modifications must be released under the terms set forth in
this License, including the license grants set forth in Section 3
below, for as long as you Externally Deploy the Covered Code or twelve
(12) months from the date of initial External Deployment, whichever is
longer. You should preferably distribute the Source Code of Your
Externally Deployed Modifications electronically (e.g. download from a
web site).

2.3 Distribution of Executable Versions. In addition, if You
Externally Deploy Covered Code (Original Code and/or Modifications) in
object code, executable form only, You must include a prominent
notice, in the code itself as well as in related documentation,
stating that Source Code of the Covered Code is available under the
terms of this License with information on how and where to obtain such
Source Code.

2.4 Third Party Rights. You expressly acknowledge and agree that
although Apple and each Contributor grants the licenses to their
respective portions of the Covered Code set forth herein, no
assurances are provided by Apple or any Contributor that the Covered
Code does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property
rights of any other entity. Apple and each Contributor disclaim any
liability to You for claims brought by any other entity based on
infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a
condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, You
hereby assume sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual
property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent
license is required to allow You to distribute the Covered Code, it is
Your responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the
Covered Code.

3. Your Grants. In consideration of, and as a condition to, the
licenses granted to You under this License, You hereby grant to any
person or entity receiving or distributing Covered Code under this
License a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license,
under Your Applicable Patent Rights and other intellectual property
rights (other than patent) owned or controlled by You, to use,
reproduce, display, perform, modify, sublicense, distribute and
Externally Deploy Your Modifications of the same scope and extent as
Apple's licenses under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 above.

4. Larger Works. You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered
Code with other code not governed by the terms of this License and
distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In each such instance,
You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for
the Covered Code or any portion thereof.

5. Limitations on Patent License. Except as expressly stated in
Section 2, no other patent rights, express or implied, are granted by
Apple herein. Modifications and/or Larger Works may require additional
patent licenses from Apple which Apple may grant in its sole
discretion.

6. Additional Terms. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for,
warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations and/or other
rights consistent with the scope of the license granted herein
("Additional Terms") to one or more recipients of Covered Code.
However, You may do so only on Your own behalf and as Your sole
responsibility, and not on behalf of Apple or any Contributor. You
must obtain the recipient's agreement that any such Additional Terms
are offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify, defend
and hold Apple and every Contributor harmless for any liability
incurred by or claims asserted against Apple or such Contributor by
reason of any such Additional Terms.

7. Versions of the License. Apple may publish revised and/or new
versions of this License from time to time. Each version will be given
a distinguishing version number. Once Original Code has been published
under a particular version of this License, You may continue to use it
under the terms of that version. You may also choose to use such
Original Code under the terms of any subsequent version of this
License published by Apple. No one other than Apple has the right to
modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created under this
License.

8. NO WARRANTY OR SUPPORT. The Covered Code may contain in whole or in
part pre-release, untested, or not fully tested works. The Covered
Code may contain errors that could cause failures or loss of data, and
may be incomplete or contain inaccuracies. You expressly acknowledge
and agree that use of the Covered Code, or any portion thereof, is at
Your sole and entire risk. THE COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND
WITHOUT WARRANTY, UPGRADES OR SUPPORT OF ANY KIND AND APPLE AND
APPLE'S LICENSOR(S) (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS "APPLE" FOR THE
PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 8 AND 9) AND ALL CONTRIBUTORS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM
ALL WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF
MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OF ACCURACY, OF QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD
PARTY RIGHTS. APPLE AND EACH CONTRIBUTOR DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST
INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE COVERED CODE, THAT THE
FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE COVERED CODE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS,
THAT THE OPERATION OF THE COVERED CODE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR
ERROR-FREE, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE COVERED CODE WILL BE CORRECTED. NO
ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY APPLE, AN APPLE
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY.
You acknowledge that the Covered Code is not intended for use in the
operation of nuclear facilities, aircraft navigation, communication
systems, or air traffic control machines in which case the failure of
the Covered Code could lead to death, personal injury, or severe
physical or environmental damage.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO
EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING
TO THIS LICENSE OR YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE COVERED CODE, OR
ANY PORTION THEREOF, WHETHER UNDER A THEORY OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY,
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCTS LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF
APPLE OR SUCH CONTRIBUTOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES AND NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY
REMEDY. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY
TO YOU. In no event shall Apple's total liability to You for all
damages (other than as may be required by applicable law) under this
License exceed the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00).

10. Trademarks. This License does not grant any rights to use the
trademarks or trade names "Apple", "Apple Computer", "Mac", "Mac OS",
"QuickTime", "QuickTime Streaming Server" or any other trademarks,
service marks, logos or trade names belonging to Apple (collectively
"Apple Marks") or to any trademark, service mark, logo or trade name
belonging to any Contributor. You agree not to use any Apple Marks in
or as part of the name of products derived from the Original Code or
to endorse or promote products derived from the Original Code other
than as expressly permitted by and in strict compliance at all times
with Apple's third party trademark usage guidelines which are posted
at http://www.apple.com/legal/guidelinesfor3rdparties.html.

11. Ownership. Subject to the licenses granted under this License,
each Contributor retains all rights, title and interest in and to any
Modifications made by such Contributor. Apple retains all rights,
title and interest in and to the Original Code and any Modifications
made by or on behalf of Apple ("Apple Modifications"), and such Apple
Modifications will not be automatically subject to this License. Apple
may, at its sole discretion, choose to license such Apple
Modifications under this License, or on different terms from those
contained in this License or may choose not to license them at all.

12. Termination.

12.1 Termination. This License and the rights granted hereunder will
terminate:

(a) automatically without notice from Apple if You fail to comply with
any term(s) of this License and fail to cure such breach within 30
days of becoming aware of such breach;

(b) immediately in the event of the circumstances described in Section
13.5(b); or

(c) automatically without notice from Apple if You, at any time during
the term of this License, commence an action for patent infringement
against Apple; provided that Apple did not first commence
an action for patent infringement against You in that instance.

12.2 Effect of Termination. Upon termination, You agree to immediately
stop any further use, reproduction, modification, sublicensing and
distribution of the Covered Code. All sublicenses to the Covered Code
which have been properly granted prior to termination shall survive
any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their nature,
should remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall
survive, including but not limited to Sections 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12.2 and 13. No party will be liable to any other for compensation,
indemnity or damages of any sort solely as a result of terminating
this License in accordance with its terms, and termination of this
License will be without prejudice to any other right or remedy of
any party.

13. Miscellaneous.

13.1 Government End Users. The Covered Code is a "commercial item" as
defined in FAR 2.101. Government software and technical data rights in
the Covered Code include only those rights customarily provided to the
public as defined in this License. This customary commercial license
in technical data and software is provided in accordance with FAR
12.211 (Technical Data) and 12.212 (Computer Software) and, for
Department of Defense purchases, DFAR 252.227-7015 (Technical Data --
Commercial Items) and 227.7202-3 (Rights in Commercial Computer
Software or Computer Software Documentation). Accordingly, all U.S.
Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those rights set
forth herein.

13.2 Relationship of Parties. This License will not be construed as
creating an agency, partnership, joint venture or any other form of
legal association between or among You, Apple or any Contributor, and
You will not represent to the contrary, whether expressly, by
implication, appearance or otherwise.

13.3 Independent Development. Nothing in this License will impair
Apple's right to acquire, license, develop, have others develop for
it, market and/or distribute technology or products that perform the
same or similar functions as, or otherwise compete with,
Modifications, Larger Works, technology or products that You may
develop, produce, market or distribute.

13.4 Waiver; Construction. Failure by Apple or any Contributor to
enforce any provision of this License will not be deemed a waiver of
future enforcement of that or any other provision. Any law or
regulation which provides that the language of a contract shall be
construed against the drafter will not apply to this License.

13.5 Severability. (a) If for any reason a court of competent
jurisdiction finds any provision of this License, or portion thereof,
to be unenforceable, that provision of the License will be enforced to
the maximum extent permissible so as to effect the economic benefits
and intent of the parties, and the remainder of this License will
continue in full force and effect. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if applicable law prohibits or restricts You from fully and/or
specifically complying with Sections 2 and/or 3 or prevents the
enforceability of either of those Sections, this License will
immediately terminate and You must immediately discontinue any use of
the Covered Code and destroy all copies of it that are in your
possession or control.

13.6 Dispute Resolution. Any litigation or other dispute resolution
between You and Apple relating to this License shall take place in the
Northern District of California, and You and Apple hereby consent to
the personal jurisdiction of, and venue in, the state and federal
courts within that District with respect to this License. The
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.

13.7 Entire Agreement; Governing Law. This License constitutes the
entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof. This License shall be governed by the laws of the
United States and the State of California, except that body of
California law concerning conflicts of law.

Where You are located in the province of Quebec, Canada, the following
clause applies: The parties hereby confirm that they have requested
that this License and all related documents be drafted in English. Les
parties ont exige que le present contrat et tous les documents
connexes soient rediges en anglais.

EXHIBIT A.

"Portions Copyright (c) 1999-2003 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights
Reserved.

This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
file.

The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
limitations under the License."
